# Hazards

## Hazards

### Pipeline Hazards

Pipelining speeds up processing throughput by processing multiple instructions in parallel. It does this by computing the different stages of each instruction in the pipeline in parallel. Ideally, we expect the Cycles per Instruction (CPI) to be approximately 1 instruction per cycle per pipeline, and because pipelines break one large instruction into pipeline stages, we expect a speedup to equal approximately the number of stages in the pipeline. In reality its less because the stages do not take the same amount of time. The pipeline stage with the longest delay sets the maximum throughput of the pipeline. In addition, there are pipeline hazards:

1. **Structural Hazards**: If the instructions in a pipeline share hardware resources, they may not be processed at the same time.

    To solve structural hazards, stall or replicate hardware resources.

2. **Data Hazard**: If an instruction depends on previous instructions' results, it may have to wait until the results are computed in the pipeline.

    RAW: Read After Write

    WAW: Write after Write

    WAR: Write after Read

3. **Control Hazard**: Branches and jumps may cause delays between when control flow decisions are made and when instructions can be fetched.

    To resolve control hazards, wait or predict and correct if wrong.



## llvm::ScheduleHazardRecognizer Class

llvm::ScheduleHazardRecognizer is a class defined in llvm/CodeGen/ScheduleHazardRecognizer.h that determines whether or not an instruction can be issued in a given cycle, and whether or not a noop needs to be inserted to handle the hazard.

